[Music]
welcome back
now many on both sides of the aisle have
been praising our next guest for his
leadership as chair of the National
Governors Association
except for you-know-who who attacked him
at yesterday's press conference
please welcome Republican governor of
Maryland Larry Hogan who joins us live
from Maryland State House welcome
governor glad to see you so let's get
right to morning thank you you're
welcome you said it's absolutely false
that states have the testing capacity
they need to reopen safely but you know
who doesn't seem to agree here's what he
had to say about how about you yesterday
hundreds and hundreds of labs are ready
willing and able some of the governor's
like as an example the governor from
Maryland didn't really understand the
list he didn't understand too much about
what was going on so now I think you'll
be able to do that it's pretty simple
Maryland that's Maryland right there so
could have saved a lot of money but
that's okay to get a little knowledge
would have been helpful so we'll get to
the deal that you made with South Korea
in a minute but how do you respond to
you-know-who saying you didn't know what
you would you were doing when there were
all these testing labs that were right
there for you to pick from well it's
interesting
we had a great call yesterday with the
Vice President and with the president's
own Quran coronavirus task force well
where I thank the vice president and
many members of the team for some of the
progress that they had made over the
past couple of weeks and you know I'm
chairing the National Governors
Association and then they went over you
know to discuss some of the labs that
are in each of the states they provided
us with a list of labs we were very
familiar with all of the labs in our
state already but the list they provided
us was all federal labs which I pointed
out
in which we hadn't had any access to but
our discussion really was about tests it
wasn't about lab so the president seemed
to be a little confused yesterday in his
press conference I have no idea what set
him off but we had some tremendous
success getting tests on her own which
is exactly what the president has asked
all the governors to do he said we
needed to be leading and we needed to be
stepping up and the governor's needed to
go get their own testing that's what
we've done and we had a very productive
call with his entire team yesterday
after afternoon which I was leading on
behalf of the governor's the president
was not on that call and I was somewhat
you know taken aback by his
sort of biting attacks on me yesterday I
have no idea what that was about well
governor just yesterday you announced
that you negotiated with South Korean
labs secure five hundred thousand more
tests for your state the deal took weeks
even your wife Yumi who is from who's
born in South Korea and who's just
extremely impressive I want to say I
love the work that she does with the
human trafficking and domestic violence
she was she's she's phenomenal she was
involved in getting those tests how
difficult was it to get these tests and
and why again which you have to go to
those lengths if the president says you
already had the testing capacity in your
own backyard
well again the number one problem in
America from the beginning of this
crisis has been the lack of available
testing and that's been a problem every
single governor in the country has had
that Republicans and Democrats and that
the the smokescreen yesterday was about
labs that has nothing to do with test
kits but the test kits that nobody had
enough of the president told us to go
out and get on her own governors have
been fighting to get those from every
domestic company in America from the
federal government and from sources
around the globe we were very successful
I took a lot of work over a twenty two
days straight day and night effort with
my wife was very involved in helping us
but we worked got the assistance of of
in South Korea the South Korean
government a couple of great South
Korean companies and we we negotiated a
terrific deal to bring in half a million
tests we flew in a special flight of
Korean air passenger plane flew in to
BWI Airport the first one ever no
passengers but a really valuable payload
that's going to help us save the lives
of thousands of people in our state and
we're very pleased to have accomplished
that and we appreciate the cooperation
of the federal government and partners
and we look forward to working with them
on their labs so that we can utilize all
these tests but it was I want to thank
my wife I want to thank this at the
Republic of Korea for their cooperation
and a great team effort by folks here in
Maryland and our partners across the
globe
governor Hogan this is Macon we were
talking about at the top of the show
Georgia opening up gyms and salons as
early as Friday they obviously are
taking a more aggressive approach to
opening up the economy and there's
obviously a lot of people that are very
worried about what the potential health
ramifications of this could be you have
said it now is the worst possible time
to reopen your state why and when do you
think we can expect to have these
restrictions eased and what would you
say to your friends in Georgia who are
in legislative positions who have made a
different decision well so the
president's own task force and his
report that came out last Thursday
evening his coronavirus suggestions and
guidelines for States says that you need
to have declining numbers in your state
for over a 14 day period I'm not sure of
what the numbers are in Georgia
you know I'm they're able to he said
each state should be able to make their
own decisions about what's going on in
their own states which I think was a
smart policy but in our state
unfortunately the numbers in the
Baltimore in the Baltimore Washington
corridor in the Maryland DC and Virginia
area because of some of the early and
aggressive actions that we took to
flatten and lengthen the curve our
numbers are lower but they're we're on
the rise and in the Washington area we
just announced here today in our region
25,000 cases in a thousand deaths so
we're not able to start opening things
up it's the wrong time
according to all the experts and
according to the president's own plan
but we're as just as anxious as anybody
to get our economy open when we could do
it in a safe way I'm a lifelong small
business person who I feel for the
people that are that are not able to
work and I feel for the small businesses
that are suffering but we want to make
sure that we we're going to announce
later this week a a safe road to
recovery and reopening but we can't do
it until we see those numbers start to
decline and we're gonna do it in a very
safe way based on the advice of the best
scientists that we have here in our
state okay governor thank you for being
on the show I appreciate that you're
trying to do your best let's talk about
the fact that last night Trump announced
that he's he's limiting and halting all
immigration halting it actually into
this country even though immigrants
account for 18.2% of health workers and
this were in this country and thirty
point three percent of nursing home
housekeeping and maintenance workers are
immigrants okay he tweeted that he
wanted to protect the jobs of our great
American citizens well do you support
that measure will it really help or is
this just one of his distractions that
he's very famous for you know I didn't
really see that tweet joi and you know I
try not to pay any attention to the
tweets from the president because maybe
apparently he was tweeting about me last
night as well and I didn't get a chance
to read any of those either but I mean
it's not really a policy and he hasn't I
don't think rolled out any kind of a
proposal it's just I think a distraction
from what's really going on but you know
I know that you know he stopped flights
in from places like you know China and
Europe which made sense because you know
people coming in with the virus but I
don't really know what the tweet was
about last night frankly but certainly
we just we just got done talking about
you know my wife is a first generation
immigrant from South Korea and just
helped us through those relationships
acquire half a million tests from from
the folks there in South Korea that's
gonna help save the lives of people in
our state that's what really we're
focused on here and we have some
terrific people from all
around the world that are working in our
hospitals in our healthcare system that
are saving people's lives and we
appreciate it
so more with governor Larry Hogan when
we come back hey welcome back we are
here with governor Larry Hogan Sonny
governor we've seen protests popping up
all around the country and the president
some say has been inciting those
protests tweeting things like states
should be liberated from stay-at-home
orders I saw over the weekend that there
was also a protest in Annapolis Maryland
Maryland's capital governor Inslee
warned that trumps language is fomenting
domestic rebellion and could in fact
lead to violence do you agree with with
Governor Inslee well I missed the small
protest that they had here in Annapolis
on Saturday because I was at BWI Airport
welcoming the plane that had the 500,000
coronavirus test kits that flew in from
Korea that's gonna save thousands of
people in our state but it wasn't a very
large protest but I think it was
unhelpful I mean it doesn't make any
sense the mixed messaging we're getting
out of the president for example in our
state and I think in most of the states
where he was encouraging protests we
don't have 14 days of downward numbers
which is what the president's plan that
came out on Thursday night called for
yeah president's plan says that no
states should consider reopening until
you have 14 days of downward numbers
that made sense on but on Friday he
encouraged people to go out and protest
and liberate those very same states so
he basically was encouraging people to
violate his own federal policy so I
don't think it was helpful
I you know I understand people's
frustrations I understand people want to
get out of the house they want to get
back to work I understand that they're
hurting that part I get I'm frustrated
you know I I feel like protesting myself
frankly but I you know I think to to
encourage people to go against your own
policy and to just go out and
and I don't think it's helpful to the
discussion governor Hogan this is Meghan
so clearly many many people in this
country are in a lot of pain right now
22 million Americans have already filed
for unemployment benefits as we just
said your state saw protests this
weekend although I guess in your state
demonstrators did stay in their cars and
maintain social distance for the most
part I have been empathetic towards
these protesters I think people are
panicking because they're looking down
the barrel of the inability to pay their
mortgage to feed their families to send
their kids to college and so forth what
message do you have for people like me
who are empathizing with these Americans
well I empathize with them too as I just
said I mean it's totally understandable
there's a lot of economic pain out there
and it's there's these twin problems
that are happening at the same time
we've got the this terrible worldwide
pandemic that as the president said
yesterday without action the president
said we would have had 2 million deaths
he just said that yesterday
and yet the actions that we were
required to take that the president told
us that take that the governors have had
to take has has caused that all the
businesses to shut down cause people to
social distance and that's caused some
economic pain and people are suffering
out there but there's been plenty of
action at the state level and at the
federal level to try to help those folks
to get some checks out to the people
that are suffering there just support
for the small businesses we've taken
tremendous action here in the state the
federal government has is great to see
bipartisan support in Congress but
Democrats and Republicans coming
together to support these plans along
with the administration so we're gonna
everybody's gonna try to get our economy
back on track but I understand and
empathize I feel really badly for the
people that are out there suffering
we're also feel terrible about the
people who've lost their lives and all
those people that are sick and so we're
trying to fix both problems at the same
time and we really just need all of the
folks at the federal state and local
level working together supporting our
our health care workers and our doctors
that are trying to save people and also
supporting those folks that are out
there suffering try to get our economies
back on track we got to do both things
at the same time
yeah yes sir yes sir we do empathize
with those people but health comes first
the ramifications of this virus could go
well into the fall they're telling us
what are you going to do to ensure that
everyone in your state can vote safely
and securely come November are you in
favor of absentee ballots or mail-in
ballots so in our state our our primary
was supposed to be in April and one of
the first early actions I took I think
I've I think I've signed 37 executive
order since I declared a state of
emergency on the very first day that we
had cases we took some aggressive
actions but we one of the things we did
was we postponed our April primary until
June and we're we're pushing for a
mail-in ballot so we haven't really made
we've asked our State Board of Elections
to study what happens in the November
election we still have some time to take
a look at that but here for the primary
in Maryland we did push for and support
mail-in ballots which i think is gonna
be a great test to see how that how that
functions and see how it works right
so governor I have a really dopey
question to ask you about a local
Maryland Police Department recently
posted a PSA on Facebook that went viral
they wrote please remember to put pants
on before leaving the house to check
your mailbox now I know they weren't
talking about me
but do you know who they were talking
about because it said this seriously
this is your final warning you know any
any ideas of you know apparently there's
somebody in this small town who keeps
going to check his mail without any
pants on this is not part of any
executive orders on our part I'm hoping
he was wearing a mask at the time I
think it's probably gonna help with
social distancing because people are
gonna stay six feet apart away from him
so I don't know he should probably put
his pants on but at least he's not
getting people crowded around a month
probably that's he's probably being
saved and he's not catching the corona
virus
no that's it's fabulous you that was
perfect governor thank you so much and
thank you for everything you're doing
for your state we'll be right back thank
you all very much for having me thank
you
[Music]